# Question:

When designing the scheduling mechanism of an OS, should we do the actual process scheduling (i.e. calling the scheduling algorithm to run some processes in waiting and pause some others in running) in every time interrupt? Why or why not? Your arguments should concrete and specific as much as possible.

# Answer

No, the scheduling mechanism should not be called at every time interrupt, this would be extremely inefficient and not how the scheduling mechanism of an OS works. The first issue is that the time interrupts would be too frequent to warrant calling the scheduler, its called approximately every millisecond but this varies in different OSs. Calling the Scheduler every millisecond would require the OS to keep track of a-lot of the dependencies and tasks the current running process needs, if it changes it needs to be saved before the scheduler moves on. This is also called context switching and is extremely expensive for the cpu. The Scheduler should be programmed to be switched or run on better more concrete points where its efficient and viable to switch for example when a higher priority task is in the queue. The timer interrupt can be used to track how long the current process has been running for and used to call the scheduler after a certain threshold, the time assigned to a process is also called its time slice and once its over that the cpu can move on. Modern Operating Systems don't really call/interrupt the scheduler unless theres is an actual reason too, this is called lazy/deferred scheduling. So the main reason we shouldn't actually do the process scheduling for every time interrupt is because the context switch would be too expensive of a resource and there exit better more efficient ways to handle scheduling.
